---
comment: wip items inline
title: Introduction
author: TK> HB
proofedDate: 20221122
---

## TL;DR

- Qredo API v1 is a [REST-ful Open API 3](/api-reference/qredo-api) service
- It is provides two main services: [Web3 API Wallet](qredo-api/web3-wallet) and [Read-only API](qredo-api/read-only)
- To use it, you need to [authenticate](qredo-api/generate-keys) and [sign](qredo-api/sign-api-calls) requests thanks to an API key and a secret
- [Production](https://api.qredo.network/qapi/v1/) and [Sandbox](https://sandbox-api.qredo.network/qapi/v1) environments available
- [Get started here](qredo-api/get-started)

{% callout type="warning" title="Work in progress" %}
As of Q2 2023, Qredo API v2 will be rolled out. The first services launched and their respective documentation are a work in progress and subject to updates.
{% /callout %}

## Service overview

The Qredo API allows you to apply [granular control](/glossary/api-keys) over who may programmatically create and approve Web3 transactions and access reporting data. 

API keys control access to the service. This allows you to provide the keys to your selected trusted parties.

Furthermore, such keys can be assigned to the entity-level of your choice:

- Organization
- Wallet {% comment %} /Vault V2 not supported yet{% /comment %}


## Who uses Qredo API?

 Companies and developers requiring a programmatic integration with Qredo to implement intuitive white-label and dApp integrations to transact over Web3.

## Versions

The Qredo API v1 currently provides two services that have different requirements for use:

- [Web3 API Wallet](/developer-guides/api-services/web3-wallet)

    Supporting broadcast-ready transaction creation, approval, signing, and status updates.

- [Read-only](/developer-guides/api-services/read-only)

    Reporting service.

As of Q2 2023, Qredo API v2 is under development. The first services launched and their respective documentation are a work in progress and subject to updates.

## API features

Qredo Services provide a standard RESTful web service that uses HTTPS. All payloads and responses are in JSON format.

### API environments and Base URLs

Two API environments are available:

**1. Production: the live environment**

Production base URL: 
```
https://api.qredo.network/qapi/v1/
```
{% comment %} FIXME: Can you only use testnet assets in the sandbox? {% /comment %}
**2. Sandbox: the experience in the Sandbox mirrors Production. However, you can only use testnet assets in the Sandbox.**

Sandbox base URL:
```
https://sandbox-api.qredo.network/qapi/v1
```

## Authentication

You should generate an **API key** and **API secret** pair.

The API key authenticates your API user, and the API secret is used to sign and encrypt every API request.

{% callout type="note" title="Further information" %}
See [Generate API key and secret](/developer-guides/qredo-api/generate-keys) and [Sign API calls](/developer-guides/qredo-api/sign-api-calls).
{% /callout %}

## API requests

The API requests use standard HTTP methods: GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE. Every request submitted to the API must be signed and encrypted using the HMAC-SHA256 hashing algorithm. This provides request integrity and adds a security layer for authorizing with the API service.

### Request headers

All API resources use the same header format.

With __every__ API request, you must supply the following headers:

Header | Description
-------|----------
`accept: application/json`| All payloads are in JSON
`qredo-api-sig`| The unique [signature](/developer-guides/qredo-api/sign-api-calls) generated for each API request (including the JSON payload where applicable)
`qredo-api-ts`| The signature timestamp
`qredo-api-key`| The API key as generated by the user in the Qredo Web App

{% callout type="note" title="Headers are excluded from examples" %}
    In this guide, the request headers are usually omitted in examples. You will need to generate and pass the signature and timestamp with each API call. To facilitate your understanding and use of signatures, Qredo provides a [dedicated example tool](/developer-guides/qredo-api/qredo-api-tool) to sign and timestamp your requests.
{% /callout %}

### Request examples

In the API specification, requests are presented as `curl` requests, e.g.:


```bash
curl -X GET https://api.qredo.network/qapi/v1/balance
```

The body of each request (if applicable) is presented as uncompressed JSON.

## API responses

Responses use standard HTTP codes to indicate status and errors. Data is returned in JSON format unless the endpoint specifically serves to provide a specialized payload, e.g., .csv.

### Response examples

In the API specification, the return data in each response is presented as formatted JSON. For example, the return body of `GET /balance` is structured as follows:

```json
{
  "assets": [
    {
      "BTC": {
        "total": 1000,
        "available": 980,
        "pendingIn": 20,
        "pendingOut": 0,
        "scale": 1
      }
    },
    {
      "ETH": {
        "total": 2000,
        "available": 1500,
        "pendingIn": 500,
        "pendingOut": 0,
        "scale": 1
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{%comment%} FIXME: Personal vs. Organizational: is this still valid lingo? {%/comment%}
## Personal vs. Organizational Accounts

Qredo API v1 responses are returned on a by-key basis. For example, you may be linked to one (or more) Organizations via your Personal Qredo Account. However, the Qredo API v1 returns data according to the API key used, i.e., each call is specific to one Account. 

If you use a Personal Account API key, your API call returns data regarding that Personal Account. Similarly, when you are using the API key of an Organizational Account, all details and API actions relate to that Organizational Account only. 

{% callout type="note" title="Granular control" %}
API keys may provide a level of access below the Account level. Such granular access is a key component of the [customizable nature](/glossary/approvals) of Qredo's custody layer.  
{% /callout %}